# Homework 2

#### Ainsley King

**1. What were the main issues in the Reinhard and Rogoff issue, and how
best could they have been avoided?**

Reinhart and Rogoff were attempting to analyze data from many different
countries to find a correlation between a country's debt and their
economic growth. They concluded from their data analysis that economic
growth slows when a country's debt rises to more than 90% of the GDP.
However, it was later found that the analysis accidentally omitted some
of the data, which would have significantly altered the finding. They
were doing their analysis in excel, and failed to select some of the
rows of their document. Their 90% figure had been widely cited by
economists and politicians at that point, and impacted policy making.
This issue could have been avoided if Reinhart and Rogoff had been more
careful about checking their analysis while they were performing it, to
make sure it was reproducible. Furthermore, they should have had outside
parties checking and attempting to reproduce their work. Finally, their
mistake would have been caught much earlier if they had been completely
transparent about what exact data they used and what analyses they did.
Publishing all of their data would have allowed other independent people
to check their analysis, and discover their mistake.

**2. What key attributes make a piece of data analysis "reproducible"?**
Please put those attributes in a prioritized list (i.e., for you, what
is most important, next most important, etc...)

       
1.  I think the most important thing for making data reproducible is
    proper documentation of your work. You need to keep track of
    exactly what data was used for your analysis, exactly what
    analyses you performed, and in what order. It will be impossible
    for anyone to reproduce your results if they donâ€™t know how you
    got to those results.

2.  It is also important for you to have other people attempt to
    reproduce your analysis while you are doing it, as well as
    after. Someone else constantly checking your work will ensure
    that any mistakes are caught early, and anything you missed in
    your documentation can be added.

3.  Another key aspect is transparency. You need to be sure that all
    of the documentation you did is easily accesible to anyone who
    wants to view it. This way, anyone will be able to attempt to
    reproduce your results, and any confusion or mistakes can be
    resolved quickly.


**3. Imagine that you are doing a piece of data analysis that only you
will ever see: perhaps you are shopping for a car and trying to
determine what will give you the best value for your money. Should you
think about making your data analysis reproducible? Why or why not?**

Yes, you should always try to make any analysis you do reproducible.
First and foremost, an analysis that is not reproducible may contain
mistakes, as in the Reinhart-Rogoff affair. This could lead you to draw
incorrect conclusions and make misinformed decisions. It is also
important because you may want to come back to your analysis later and
re-use it (say, buying another car), or adapt it for something else
(like shopping for something else). In this instance it will be very
important to understand how you did you analysis the first time, so you
can accurately re-run it or modify it to your needs. Finally, it is
simply good practice for you to always follow the steps necessary to
make an analysis reproducible. You never know what will happen to your
code in the future, or if another person will end up seeing it. It is
smarter to make these steps a consistant habit, rather than something
you only do when you have to.
